README.md, before:

# Serverless Webhook Client

## Why the topic of webhooks?

I will always find webhooks interesting. It's a meaty problem-space and there's a lot to it.

You build a mailbox (or a few) to receive messages, and you'll have to think about:

- Persistence:
  - How can I ensure that webhooks are not lost?
  - If they do get lost, how can we recieve another copy?
- Security:
  - How do I know who sent this?
  - How do I know that this has not been tampered with or altered in any way?
- Failures:
  - How do I handle processing failures?
  - How can I retry or resume processing?
- Duplication:
  - What if I receive more than one copy of a webhook event?
    - At the same time?
    - What about at different times?
- Potential Race Conditions:
  - Does the order of webhooks matter?

# Built With

### Langauges, Frameworks and Runtimes

- Node
- TypeScript
- SST - framework used to scaffold resources on AWS via infrastructure as code
- ElectroDB - Single-Table design oriented framework for DynamoDB (WIP)

### Infrastructure

- API Gateway
- Lambda - Serverless compute (functions as a service)
- DynamoDB - NoSQL Database
- DynamoDB streams - Publishing events such as a Record Inserted event. We will use this to trigger the initial run.
- SQS - queues containing webhooks that have not been processed successfully. We will use this to trigger re-runs.

# Architecture

![Architecture Digram](./docs/diagrams/architecture.png)

# API

| Method | Target                     | Notes                                              |
| ------ | -------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/api/webhooks/bigcommece` | Capture webhooks from BigCommerce                  |
| `POST` | `/api/webhooks/stripe`     | Capture webhooks from Stripe (not yet implemented) |

# SQS Queues

| Name                  | Notes                                                                                    |
| --------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Failed Webhooks Queue | Rerun failed webhooks. Max two retries before messges get sent to the dead letter queue. |
| Dead Webhooks Queue   | Dead Letter Queue. This is where we can notify an operator.                              |

# Lambda Functions

| Name                      | Trigger                                | Description                              |
| ------------------------- | -------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `capture-webhooks`        | API Gateway Event                      | Capture webhooks and persist to DynamoDB |
| `dynamo-process-webhooks` | DynamoDB Stream Insert Event           | Process webhook (first run)              |
| `sqs-process-webhooks`    | SQS Message from Failed Webhooks Queue | Process webhook (failed runs)            |

Note: Names have yet to be updated

# DynamoDB

We will be using a Single-Table Design to store our webhooks data. Not too familar with this concept but this is a great opportunity to give this a go.

In a real world situation such as an eCommerce store, I would group webhooks and related data as their own collection of entities. And things like Customers, Orders, maybe Products in another multi-entity 'Single-Table'.

Also, I like the thesis of "Storage is cheap, compute isn't". I think this has some merit.

## Entities

| Name           | PK           | SK        | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| -------------- | ------------ | --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Webhook        | `WH#<WH_ID>` | `WEBHOOK` | Stores immutable information such as payload & metadata. <br>Given the immutably, we can avoid additional reads and rely on this information being sent via DynamoDB Streams and SQS. |
| Webhook Status | `WH#<WH_ID>` | `STATUS`  | Stores mutable information such status and retries                                                                                                                                    |

### Example Entities

```js
const webhook = {
  PK: 'WH#57f08d25-a733-453a-be49-8caf04df5169',
  SK: 'WEBHOOK',
  id: '57f08d25-a733-453a-be49-8caf04df5169',
  origin: 'stripe',
  type: 'payment_intent.succeeded',
  created: '2024-05-19T05:27:28+00:00',
  payload: 'json payload',
}

const webhookStatus = {
  PK: 'WH#57f08d25-a733-453a-be49-8caf04df5169',
  SK: 'STATUS',
  id: '57f08d25-a733-453a-be49-8caf04df5169'
  status: 'completed',
  retries: 1,
}
```

Note: schema is subject to change.

## Access Patterns

<!-- generate a 4 column table with the names Access Patterns, Target, Parameters & Notes -->

| Access Patterns             | Target     | Parameters   | Notes                                                                                   |
| --------------------------- | ---------- | ------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Get Webhook                 | Main Table | - Webhook ID | Get Operation - Given the immutability, we can always use 'eventually' consistent reads |
| Capture Webhook             | Main Table | - Webhook ID | Transaction with Two Operations: <br>- Put Webhook <br>- Put Webhook Status             |
| Get Webhook Status          | Main Table | - Webhook ID | Get Operation                                                                           |
| Set Webhook Status          | Main Table | - Webhook ID | Update Operation                                                                        |
| Set Webhook to `processing` | Main Table | - Webhook ID | Update Operation <br> - set `status` to `processing` <br>- increment `retries`          |

Commit message:

feat: migrate golang send-webhook experiment
to it's own lambda function

README.md, after:

# Serverless Webhook Client

## Why the topic of webhooks?

I will always find webhooks interesting. It's a meaty problem-space and there's a lot to it.

You build a mailbox (or a few) to receive messages, and you'll have to think about:

- Persistence:
  - How can I ensure that webhooks are not lost?
  - If they do get lost, how can we recieve another copy?
- Security:
  - How do I know who sent this?
  - How do I know that this has not been tampered with or altered in any way?
- Failures:
  - How do I handle processing failures?
  - How can I retry or resume processing?
- Duplication:
  - What if I receive more than one copy of a webhook event?
    - At the same time?
    - What about at different times?
- Potential Race Conditions:
  - Does the order of webhooks matter?

# Built With

### Langauges, Frameworks and Runtimes

- Node
- TypeScript
- SST - framework used to scaffold resources on AWS via infrastructure as code
- ElectroDB - Single-Table design oriented framework for DynamoDB (WIP)

- Golang for our send-webhook lambda function which is used to demo this application.

### Infrastructure

- API Gateway
- Lambda - Serverless compute (functions as a service)
- DynamoDB - NoSQL Database
- DynamoDB streams - Publishing events such as a Record Inserted event. We will use this to trigger the initial run.
- SQS - queues containing webhooks that have not been processed successfully. We will use this to trigger re-runs.

# Architecture

![Architecture Digram](./docs/diagrams/architecture.png)

# API

| Method | Target                     | Notes                                                         |
| ------ | -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/api/webhooks/bigcommece` | Capture webhooks from BigCommerce                             |
| `POST` | `/api/webhooks/stripe`     | Capture webhooks from Stripe (not yet implemented)            |
| `POST` | `/demo/send-webhook`       | Generates a BigCommerce Webhook event and sends it to our API |

# SQS Queues

| Name                  | Notes                                                                                    |
| --------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Failed Webhooks Queue | Rerun failed webhooks. Max two retries before messges get sent to the dead letter queue. |
| Dead Webhooks Queue   | Dead Letter Queue. This is where we can notify an operator.                              |

# Lambda Functions

| Name                      | Trigger                                | Description                              |
| ------------------------- | -------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `capture-webhooks`        | API Gateway Event                      | Capture webhooks and persist to DynamoDB |
| `dynamo-process-webhooks` | DynamoDB Stream Insert Event           | Process webhook (first run)              |
| `sqs-process-webhooks`    | SQS Message from Failed Webhooks Queue | Process webhook (failed runs)            |

These three lambdas build out the core functionality of the project.

## Other Lambda Functions

| Name            | Trigger           | Description                                                                                                                                      |
| --------------- | ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `send-webhooks` | API Gateway Event | Creates and sends a BigCommerce webhook to our API. Built with Golang since different languages may marshall / unmarshall JSON data differently. |

These lambdas will are used to demo our features.

# DynamoDB

We will be using a Single-Table Design to store our webhooks data. Not too familar with this concept but this is a great opportunity to give this a go.

In a real world situation such as an eCommerce store, I would group webhooks and related data as their own collection of entities. And things like Customers, Orders, maybe Products in another multi-entity 'Single-Table'.

Also, I like the thesis of "Storage is cheap, compute isn't". I think this has some merit.

## Entities

| Name           | PK           | SK        | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| -------------- | ------------ | --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Webhook        | `WH#<WH_ID>` | `WEBHOOK` | Stores immutable information such as payload & metadata. <br>Given the immutably, we can avoid additional reads and rely on this information being sent via DynamoDB Streams and SQS. |
| Webhook Status | `WH#<WH_ID>` | `STATUS`  | Stores mutable information such status and retries                                                                                                                                    |

### Example Entities

```js
const webhook = {
  PK: 'WH#57f08d25-a733-453a-be49-8caf04df5169',
  SK: 'WEBHOOK',
  id: '57f08d25-a733-453a-be49-8caf04df5169',
  origin: 'stripe',
  type: 'payment_intent.succeeded',
  created: '2024-05-19T05:27:28+00:00',
  payload: 'json payload',
}

const webhookStatus = {
  PK: 'WH#57f08d25-a733-453a-be49-8caf04df5169',
  SK: 'STATUS',
  id: '57f08d25-a733-453a-be49-8caf04df5169'
  status: 'completed',
  retries: 1,
}
```

Note: schema is subject to change.

## Access Patterns

<!-- generate a 4 column table with the names Access Patterns, Target, Parameters & Notes -->

| Access Patterns             | Target     | Parameters   | Notes                                                                                   |
| --------------------------- | ---------- | ------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Get Webhook                 | Main Table | - Webhook ID | Get Operation - Given the immutability, we can always use 'eventually' consistent reads |
| Capture Webhook             | Main Table | - Webhook ID | Transaction with Two Operations: <br>- Put Webhook <br>- Put Webhook Status             |
| Get Webhook Status          | Main Table | - Webhook ID | Get Operation                                                                           |
| Set Webhook Status          | Main Table | - Webhook ID | Update Operation                                                                        |
| Set Webhook to `processing` | Main Table | - Webhook ID | Update Operation <br> - set `status` to `processing` <br>- increment `retries`          |
